[Music]
hi welcome to show me the CARICOM i'm
Anuja and today we are making falafel
now falafels do not need any
introduction very simple recipe again
very simple to make it at home so let's
get started
now falafels different countries or
different regions have different recipes
so this is the recipe that I thought I
like the best
so I'll be showing it to you so here I
have taken 1 cup of garbanzo beans or
your chickpeas oh you're so fit chana
and I had soaked it overnight so one cup
of China is approximately 200 grams so
just to give you a rough idea I washed
it and I soaked it overnight with lots
of water and morning that's it I drain
out the water it again gave it a rinse
and with clean water and it's ready to
use now the falafels do not you do not
need to cook the channels you do not
need to cook the prawns or beans so if
you have a food processor over here and
you need a food processor for this a
blender is not going to cut it you're
going to have a paste and you don't want
that you want a little texture in your
falafel so I'm going to just put
chickpeas in here I have drained out all
the water and I'm going to process it
till it becomes like a breadcrumb kind
of texture look at this just like bread
crumbs I'm gonna put it into a bowl you
can see the consistency beautiful look
at it this is exactly how we want it I'm
gonna keep it aside but the food
processor back on and I'm gonna add in
some garlic I'm using about 6 pieces of
garlic against scale up scale down
depending on your taste with the blade
in there before I forget put it in that
take a small red onion big pile instead
and standards and small by us standards
we'll just rough chop it because it is
going to go into the food processor so
why waste time
I'm gonna give it a quick whirl once so
gets a little head start and I'm now
going to add in some herbs so I have
over here some mint leaves ah absolutely
divine again a little show-off moment
from my garden so I'm gonna just use a
handful and four mint leaves unlike
cilantro leaves or coriander leaves you
do not use the stem these stems are
still a little tender because I've just
plucked them make sure there's soft and
just the best for you guys
but usually they are a little tougher if
you buy them from the store and I've
washed it and I'm just going to use them
so I'm going to take our old leaves this
is a good handful I have a handful of
parsley flat parsley over here again
beautiful beautiful so I'm gonna chop
them up roughly and it's gonna go in
there the mint leaves are going to go in
there and the equal amount of coriander
leaves or cilantro leaves so again I'm
gonna chop them up roughly and put them
in there so let me get this started
okay once everything is in turn it open
scrape down the sides very important and
one mobile there you go this place
smells amazing look at this so I'm gonna
take this back here now I'm going to
combine this I cannot tell you now if
you for all the people who like spicy
food I didn't agree in chili along with
your onion and your garlic and you're
all set look at it looks so beautiful
I'm gonna mix it absolutely fantastic
I'm going to add some seasoning to it
but one of the things I want to mention
is that if you're going to be making it
a little later I would suggest you add
the salt last otherwise all those greens
will let the moisture go and including
the onions will let some moisture go and
you'll have like us
soggy mess and to this we're gonna add
about noir one teaspoon of ground black
pepper adjusted to your taste
we're adding one teaspoon of cumin
powder now if I was not using as much
cilantro coriander I would add in some
coriander powder but I think I've got
plenty I'm not going to use that but if
you cannot lay your hands on that fresh
stuff
of course that's the best just do this
I'm going to also add in about two
tablespoons of lemon juice 1 tablespoon
of olive oil mix now this is really
green and that's exactly how you want it
so a little bit here or there as far as
the herbs are concerned trust me it can
only get better
now falafels are inside are usually
green and a lot of falafels use fava
beans some of them use you know cooked
chickpeas this is the recipe that worked
really really well for me I add in one
teaspoon of baking soda not baking
powder I'm using baking soda directly
because there is lemon juice in there it
is going to activate it so I don't have
to worry about half a teaspoon of kosher
salt you can always adjust later once
you taste it and I'm going to mix it now
the salt and the baking soda needs to be
added last or just before frying okay
I'm gonna give it a little try here
the salt is good but I need a little bit
more lime juice so I'm gonna add just
1/2 more tablespoon and this point and
we'll cover it and I'm going to put it
in the fridge while I get the oil heated
up so about 15-20 minutes maximum that's
all I need so that way it will just set
the the flavors and all will go into the
crab and soybeans and it will be really
easy to form balls also to make the
falafel this has been about 15-20
minutes
the oil is hot it's a reached
approximately 350 degrees Fahrenheit 180
degrees centigrade you don't want it to
get hot like black on the outside you
want it to cook a little bit inside but
not get dry so here you go I'm gonna
give it another good mix so for some
reason you know the greens are let the
moisture go and it's become very watery
but this is good like see if if your
hands are like wet it's perfect
but if for some reason you're not able
to form the the falafel balls just a
doughnut just a couple of tablespoons of
all-purpose flour and you'll be fine but
I like to make my falafels thin so that
way they're crispy some people and some
regions make it round and that's also
fine I've actually used a paniyaram pan
and made them because I didn't want to
waste so much oil so that's always a
good idea this is about the size I like
to keep it flatten it out and and it
doesn't need a whole lot of time it
needs very little amount of time on both
sides and as soon as you see it cut in
the color changing a little bit and
you're gonna flip it around you don't do
not need to deep-fry this if you're
making it flat and that's one of those
other reasons why I like to make it flat
that way I don't have to use up consumed
so much oil perfect and this is done I'm
gonna pull it to the side and I've got a
paper plate with it with a towel on it
got a mix put it on that and I'm gonna
carry on and do the rest
so the falafels are ready I'm gonna give
it a shot if you open it up it's still
so moist inside and the outside is
crispy I know a lot of people a lot of
your grumble that that you can hear me
chewing so here's a great example about
the outside being crispy and the inside
being soft and moist and if you can hear
it but it is absolutely amazing I just
love it and this is how I like to serve
it you have little pita pockets over
here you can buy them from the store or
you can if you have a video on it you
can check it out just cut it up quarter
them put a little falafel in there put a
little bit of tahini sauce fabulous and
come on
you can do this with me absolutely
amazing put a little thing of lettuce
put a tomato
put some pickled cucumber and voila you
have a fabulous meal so check out our
video on the guinea sauce the Uni paste
on pita bread made at home and of course
you already have the falafel now so what
more do you want so if you liked this
video and you'd like to see more from us
please don't forget to subscribe and
join us again on another episode of show
me the CARICOM adding a pinch of spice
to your life
[Music]